Research Design, Method and Dataset
The Dataset is collected from PISA official website. This is an open source dataset that researchers can investigate students¡¯ performance and various factors. One of the Challenge to do data wrangling is that PISA original dataset is full of Code to save space. I use Python and Pandas library to change the features to recognizable names. The PISA measures the student¡¯s Math score, Reading score, and Science scores through various difficulty level. The test scores traditionally were considered to estimate an individual¡¯s cognitive ability(Niederle & Vesterlund, 2010), which means math test scores are a good indicator of students¡¯ performance. Therefore, I used Python to calculate the average grade for each kind of test on multiple levels of difficulties. Then, I use multiplot and seaborn to draw the distribution for each test. The graph shows that these three tests show normal distribution with a similar median grade at around 450 out of 1000. Then, I draw the pair-by-pair representation graph for these three scores. These are a strong positive correlation between these three types of exam scores. Therefore, I just chose the math score at the indicator of students¡¯ educational performance since the math grade is a good indicator of knowledge, logic, and performance. Then, I delete the duplicate rows and check the layout of the remaining dataframe. To decrease the regional effect, I create a new dataset by group by the data where the country label is equal to the United States. To avoid the impact of outlines, I used Violin plots with 25%, 50%, and 75% lines to show the shape of grade distributions. 
 
Mother¡¯s Education Level 
From the general data, students¡¯ average math grades have a strong positive relationship with their mothers¡¯ education level. Parents with a higher educational level would have a better understanding of the importance of education. The graph shows the evidence that links mothers' educational attainment to children's academic outcomes. We believe that the level of knowledge of parents and their children's academic On the relationship between, may be subject to learning to intervene in this intermediary factor Effect. For example, I found that the higher the level, the better the child's academic performance is usually, and the educated lever. A lower educational background parent is often less involved in the student's studies. Similarly, the level of education of mothers is a contribution to their children's studies. The impact is significant, and the main reason for this may be that their mothers tend to stay at home. Mothers who intervene in the child's study, take more responsibility for educating children and tutoring them in their homework. 
 

Teachers¡¯ Effect on Education 
Different types of Teachers
These are various type of teaching types. Some teachers would like to encourage students to discuss the questions openly in class, while others would like to let students focus on the lecture. From the dataset, PISA measures the teachers¡¯ performance by question students¡¯ idea towards their teachers. 
  
  
Teacher-Student relationship
PISA database records that rating from the student for their teacher to measure the relationship between student and teacher. Throughout the scatter plots, there is a positive correlation between teacher-student-relationship and average student scores. However, we also find there is a slightly negative effect of teacher behavior. It might mean that a teacher¡¯s touch can increase students¡¯ math grade. For the countries where grades determine students¡¯ future universities, or jobs, or career path, using touch teaching styles could help students. When students pay more attention in math class, more students will get higher scores for the math test. Moreover, the attention seems to be primary keys to improve the math score for male students. 
  
 

Wealth and countries
Wealth and region are the significant impacts on the students¡¯ grade performance. People in a wealthy family can go the school with high educational quality. Countries where there is no proper education system or educational atmosphere.
Wealth 
Children with better family backgrounds are more likely to attend higher quality schools, universities and have more extensive resources in employment, which can lead to a slower flow of wealth between different segments of society and solidify social strata. As far as the modern social phenomenon is concerned, for primary education, wealthy families can pay for expensive school district houses, allowing their children to enroll in better primary, secondary and even kindergarten. Also, in the extracurricular tutoring class, provincial and municipal extracurricular competition expenditure, also need to be supported by the financial resources of the family. For higher education, the advantages of the children of wealthy families are mainly reflected in professional choice, social practice, internship experience. These hidden resources have a vital role in future income. In the financial sector, for example, although the average salary of workers is higher, income uncertainty is also substantial. The average family children are often more willing to avoid risk, so the probability of choosing high-priced professional tuition is less.


Baumert, J., Kunter, M., Blum, W., et al. (2010). Teachers¡¯ mathematical knowledge, cognitive activation in the classroom, and student progress. American educational research journal, 47 (1), 133¨C180.
Boaler, J. (2002). The development of disciplinary relationships: Knowledge, practice, and identity in mathematics classroom. For the Learning of Mathematics, 22, 42¨C47.
Lodge, J. M., & Corrin, L. (2017). What data and analytics can and do say about effective learning. Npj Science of Learning,2(1). doi:10.1038/s41539-017-0006-5
Niederle, M., & Vesterlund, L. (2010). Explaining the Gender Gap in Math Test Scores: The Role of Competition. Journal of Economic Perspectives,24(2), 129-144. doi:10.1257/jep.24.2.129
# PISA-DATA-visualization
